---
title:  "Template for RO-Crate blog posts"
author: ["Eli Chadwick"]
date: 2025-06-12
---

This template assumes you have some familiarity with Git, GitHub, and Markdown.

If you don't have those skills, but you'd like to contribute a post, you can write something up in a document (such a Google Doc) and [send it to us](../pages/community/community.md#contact-us), and we will convert to Markdown and add it to GitHub.

## Set up the file

1. Clone the https://github.com/ResearchObject/ro-crate repository. 
1. Inside the `docs/_blog` folder, create a folder with a date as its name, in the format `yyyy-mm-dd`. The date should be the intended publication date of the blog post (though this can be changed later).
1. Copy this template inside the new folder you just created.
1. Set the filename to a short title or description of your post (replace spaces with hyphens), followed by `.md` - e.g. `title-of-your-post.md`.
1. Update the "front matter" (the part between `---` at the top of the document) as follows:
    1. Add a `title` for the post. This will be used as the first heading on the rendered page.
    1. Add `author`s to the array, separated by commas, e.g. `["Person A", "Person B"].
    1. Change the `date` to the intended publication date in `yyyy-mm-dd` format. This should match the name of the folder.

## Writing the post

You could write about:
* how you're using RO-Crate in your project or domain
* an event you attended where RO-Crate was mentioned
* a tool you've created for handling RO-Crates
* an idea you've been exploring and want to share.

When writing the post, make sure to expand any acronyms you use, and link out to other pages where it's useful.

If you're writing about a particular domain, give some background to help community members outside 
the domain understand your work.

## Including images

If you want to include an image in your blog post, add the image to the same folder as the post's Markdown file:

```
_blog/
├─ yyyy-mm-dd/
│  ├─ post-name.md
│  ├─ my_image.png
```

 You can then include the image in the Markdown text with the following code:

```
{% include image.html src="my_image.png" caption="A test image" alt="Description of image" %}
```

Set `src` to the image path, then set `caption` and `alt` to appropriate descriptions of the image. The `caption` will be displayed on the page, while the `alt` will be used for the image alternative description (used by screen readers).

## Including internal links

If you want to link to another page on the RO-Crate website, format the link as follows:

```
[link text]({{baseurl}}{% link path/to/markdown/file.md %})
```

Here the path should be relative to the `docs/` folder. Do not edit the `{{ baseurl }}` part.

This is necessary because the blog posts have automatically-generated permalinks that don't match the location of the Markdown files in the folder structure, so using a relative path to another page doesn't work as you might expect. This format lets Jekyll handle setting the correct URL for the linked page.

Pages outside the RO-Crate website can be linked in the usual fashion: `[link text](url)`.

## Submit the post

When your blog post is ready, open a pull request to the [ro-crate repository](https://github.com/ResearchObject/ro-crate). One of the website maintainers will review it and merge.

Once merged, your post will appear at the path `https://www.researchobject.org/ro-crate/blog/yyyy-mm-dd/title-of-your-post`.
