---
title:  "Template for RO-Crate blog posts"
author: ["elichad"]
---

# Template for RO-Crate blog posts

This template assumes you have some familiarity with Git, GitHub, and Markdown.

If you don't have those skills, but you'd like to contribute a post, you can write something up in a document (such a Google Doc) and [send it to us](../pages/community/community.md#contact-us), and we will convert to Markdown and add it to GitHub.

## Set up the file

1. Clone the https://github.com/ResearchObject/ro-crate repository.
1. Copy this template inside the `_posts` folder.
1. Set the filename to `yyyy-mm-dd-title.md`, where `yyyy-mm-dd` is the intended publication date, and `title` is the blog post title with spaces replaced by hyphens.
2. Update the "front matter" (the part between `---` at the top of the document) as follows:
    1. Add a `title` for the post, which should match the first heading in the main text.
    2. Add `author`s to the array, separated by commas, e.g. `["Person A", "Person B"].

## Writing the post

You could write about:
* how you're using RO-Crate in your project or domain
* an event you attended where RO-Crate was mentioned
* a tool you've created for handling RO-Crates
* an idea you've been exploring and want to share.

When writing the post, make sure to expand any acronyms you use, and link out to other pages where it's useful.

If you're writing about a particular domain, give some background to help community members outside 
the domain understand your work.


## Note on internal links

If you want to link to another page on the RO-Crate website, format the link as follows:

```
[link text]({{baseurl}}{% link path/to/markdown/file.md %})
```

Here the path should be relative to the `docs/` folder.

This is necessary because the blog posts have automatically-generated permalinks that don't match the location of the Markdown files in the folder structure, so using a relative path to another page doesn't work as you might expect. This format lets Jekyll handle setting the correct URL for the linked page.

If you want to include a link to another post on the blog, format the link this way instead:

```
[link text]({% post_url 2010-07-21-name-of-post %})
```

Note that in this case, the `.md` suffix is not necessary, and the path is relative to `docs/_pages/`.

Pages outside the RO-Crate website can be linked in the usual fashion: `[link text](url)`.

## Submit the post

When your blog post is ready, open a pull request to the [ro-crate repository](https://github.com/ResearchObject/ro-crate). One of the website maintainers will review it and merge.
